README.md, before:

# Yaml language server

## Features

- No configuration needed to detect schemas
- Hover: Show description of field
- Code Action: Open documentation in browser
- Diagnostics: Validate yaml syntax
- Diagnostics: Validate against schema
- UPDATE: Not anymore, need to add it back: Kustomization: Warn when not all yaml files in the current dir are included as resources

## Automatically detected schemas

- [Kubernetes Resources](https://github.com/yannh/kubernetes-json-schema).
  Detected from `kind` and `apiVersion`.
- [Custom Resource Definitions](https://github.com/datreeio/CRDs-catalog).
  Detected from `kind` and `apiVersion`.
- UPDATE: Not anymore, need to add it back: [JSON Schema Store](https://json.schemastore.org). Detected from filename.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/slarwise/yamlls@latest
```

This will install `yamlls` into `$GOPATH/bin` or `~/go/bin`. Make sure that dir
is in your `$PATH`.

### VS Code

TODO. Do you have to write an extension? Can't you just point to a binary?

### Helix

In your `languages.toml`, add

```toml
[[language]]
name = "yaml"
language-servers = ["yamlls"]

[language-server.yamlls]
command = "yamlls"
# Optional configuration, if you want to override what json schema store returns for a specific
# filename, define the filename and schema url here. Only works with basenames, i.e. it doesn't
# work for schemas where the file pattern is something like '**/.github/workflows/*.yaml'.
config = { filenameOverrides = { '.prettierrc' = "https://my.schema.for.prettier/schema.json" } }
```

### NeoVim

In your `init.lua`, or something sourced from there, add

```lua
vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd('Filetype', {
    pattern = "yaml",
    callback = function()
        vim.lsp.start({
            name = "yamlls",
            cmd = { "yamlls" },
            root_dir = vim.fs.dirname(vim.fs.find(".git", { upward = true, path = vim.api.nvim_buf_get_name(0) })[1]),
        })
    end
})
```

## Development

To try out changes using helix, you can do:

```sh
# Use yamlls in the current directory
export PATH=.:"$PATH"
# Update source code
go build .
hx examples/service.yaml -vvv
# Test things
# Run :log-open inside helix to see helix logs
tail -f ~/Library/Caches/yamlls/log | jq # Follow the logs from yamlls (on a mac)
```

## Potential TODO's

- Completion
  - If `kind` or `apiVersion` is given, give completion suggestions for the
    other
  - Suggest `enum`s from the schema
- Code actions
  - Fill all required fields. Use placeholders that fit the type, or the first
    `enum`.
  - Add all files in the current directory to .resources in a Kustomization file
- Background http server
  - Show external documentation in a nice way for the currently open file. Can
    do this since we get notifications when the user changes file.
- Workspace: If there is an kustomization file, connect the resources somehow?
  And give info if there are things that don't match

## Bugs

- Can't get description of anyOf, such as github workflow jobs.something.runs-on
- Can't get description of any kustomization fields, I think it can't handle the
  ref

## Credits

The first version of this repo was basically copied from
[a-h/examplelsp](https://github.com/a-h/examplelsp), which is an awesome
starting point for understanding how to write a language server!

Commit message:

Document that code action for filling with zero values is supported

README.md, after:

# Yaml language server

## Features

- No configuration needed to detect schemas
- Hover: Show description of field
- Code Action: Open documentation in browser
- Code Action: Fill the field under the cursor with zero values
- Diagnostics: Validate yaml syntax
- Diagnostics: Validate against schema
- UPDATE: Not anymore, need to add it back: Kustomization: Warn when not all yaml files in the current dir are included as resources

## Automatically detected schemas

- [Kubernetes Resources](https://github.com/yannh/kubernetes-json-schema).
  Detected from `kind` and `apiVersion`.
- [Custom Resource Definitions](https://github.com/datreeio/CRDs-catalog).
  Detected from `kind` and `apiVersion`.
- UPDATE: Not anymore, need to add it back: [JSON Schema Store](https://json.schemastore.org). Detected from filename.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/slarwise/yamlls@latest
```

This will install `yamlls` into `$GOPATH/bin` or `~/go/bin`. Make sure that dir
is in your `$PATH`.

### VS Code

TODO. Do you have to write an extension? Can't you just point to a binary?

### Helix

In your `languages.toml`, add

```toml
[[language]]
name = "yaml"
language-servers = ["yamlls"]

[language-server.yamlls]
command = "yamlls"
# Optional configuration, if you want to override what json schema store returns for a specific
# filename, define the filename and schema url here. Only works with basenames, i.e. it doesn't
# work for schemas where the file pattern is something like '**/.github/workflows/*.yaml'.
config = { filenameOverrides = { '.prettierrc' = "https://my.schema.for.prettier/schema.json" } }
```

### NeoVim

In your `init.lua`, or something sourced from there, add

```lua
vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd('Filetype', {
    pattern = "yaml",
    callback = function()
        vim.lsp.start({
            name = "yamlls",
            cmd = { "yamlls" },
            root_dir = vim.fs.dirname(vim.fs.find(".git", { upward = true, path = vim.api.nvim_buf_get_name(0) })[1]),
        })
    end
})
```

## Development

To try out changes using helix, you can do:

```sh
# Use yamlls in the current directory
export PATH=.:"$PATH"
# Update source code
go build .
hx examples/service.yaml -vvv
# Test things
# Run :log-open inside helix to see helix logs
tail -f ~/Library/Caches/yamlls/log | jq # Follow the logs from yamlls (on a mac)
```

## Potential TODO's

- Completion
  - If `kind` or `apiVersion` is given, give completion suggestions for the
    other
  - Suggest `enum`s from the schema
- Code actions
  - Add all files in the current directory to .resources in a Kustomization file
- Background http server
  - Show external documentation in a nice way for the currently open file. Can
    do this since we get notifications when the user changes file.
- Workspace: If there is an kustomization file, connect the resources somehow?
  And give info if there are things that don't match

## Bugs

- Can't get description of anyOf, such as github workflow jobs.something.runs-on
- Can't get description of any kustomization fields, I think it can't handle the
  ref

## Credits

The first version of this repo was basically copied from
[a-h/examplelsp](https://github.com/a-h/examplelsp), which is an awesome
starting point for understanding how to write a language server!
